[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Back in 1990, I
moved to New York.
And at the time, I was about
the same weight as I am now.
And I was one of
those people that
is a naturally thin person,
you know the type that
can eat whatever they want.
I didn't have really
a problem with weight.
But as soon as I
moved to New York,
I started putting on weight.
And I didn't think much
about it in the beginning,
but after a couple of years
I gained 5 kilos, 10 kilos.
After a while, I gained maybe
50 pounds, something like that,
20 kilos, 25 kilos.
I decided to try to
do something about it.
And I did what everybody does.
I went on a diet because
it just made sense.
You know, calories
in, calories out.
Cut your calories, and
you lose weight, right?
So I went on a diet.
And actually I went
on a lot of diets.
And every diet I went on always
followed the same approach.
There'd be a whole list of
things you couldn't have.
No wheat, no sugar, no fat.
Whatever it is, I'd follow
the diet to the letter.
And I'd lose weight, because
you can lose weight on a diet.
So I'd lose maybe 10
pounds or 5 kilos.
And all of a sudden I find
myself in the position
where I'm not losing
weight anymore.
And I'm still on the diet.
I'm still fighting
cravings left and right.
But I'm not losing weight.
And in a sense what it's
like is like when you're
in that situation,
it's like you've
painted yourself into a corner.
I did have a life-changing
experience around 2001 and 9/11
because it was only
by a fluke of fate
that I wasn't on one of the
flights, United Airlines
93, the one that crash
landed in Pennsylvania.
And that experience
affected me very strongly
because I felt like here
I was killing myself,
and now the universe has just
given me a second chance.
And when that happened,
I really decided
that I was going to
find a real answer.
I knew diets weren't working for
me, because I tried every diet,
and they just weren't--
nothing was happening.
I'd lose weight and gain
weight, and lose weight and gain
weight.
And so I decided I was
never going to diet again.
But I was going to
try to figure out
why my body wanted to be
fat in the first place,
and what I could do to
get it to want to be thin.
And I had a very solid
biochemistry background
from the University
of Pennsylvania.
That gave me enough
of a foundation
to go on the internet
and do all the research.
And I found something
really amazing,
and that is our bodies
have a fat switch.
And when that fat
switch gets activated,
your body goes into
fat storage mode.
And it will gain weight.
I was over 400 pounds.
And I had very bad sleep apnea.
I was borderline
type 2 diabetic,
elevated triglycerides
and cholesterol.
I'd worked with Dr. Atkins,
the late Dr. Atkins,
face to face in New York.
And in the end,
the best he could
do was yell at me
for being so fat
and because I was
killing myself.
He goes, what are you doing?
You're killing yourself.
And I thought to myself,
you've sold 200 million copies
of your book.
The best-- you think
I'm going to lose weight
because you're mad at me?
Is that really the
best you can do?
So I was over 400 pounds.
And after I had that
sort of epiphany
and changed my focus from diet
to finding the real reasons why
my body wanted to be
fat, I then went on
to lose over 200 pounds.
I lost about 220 pounds over
a 2 and 1/2 year period.
And that was seven years ago.
And I've been the same
weight now for seven years.
And I haven't never dieted.
There's never a time I think,
I'm not going to have this.
I do eat a very
healthy diet, but it's
what my body craves now.
And what I've
discovered is, when
you're living in a body
that wants to be thin,
it's all automatic.
You simply crave
healthier foods.
Your metabolism speeds up.
Your tastebuds change.
You're not as hungry.
Your body becomes more
efficient at burning fat.
But having lived through a
body that wanted to be fat,
I discovered-- and I know
from firsthand experience--
that when your body wants to
be fat, you will gain weight.
And there are
certain triggers that
cause your body to gain weight.
And if you don't address those
triggers, you will gain weight.
There's no question
about it, 100%.
It's chemically based.
If you, for example,
give a doctor cortisol,
the doctor says just eat less.
If you give them
cortisol medication,
over the next three
years, I guarantee you
he'll gain 50 to 100 pounds.
I guarantee you.
It's chemical.
Your body goes into
fat storage mode.
You're simply
hungry all the time.
You crave fattening foods.
You're exhausted.
Your metabolism slows down.
And it becomes almost
impossible for you to burn fat.
And everybody's talking about
calories in, calories out.
Nobody even asked the
question, do I even
have the ability to burn fat?
And when your fat
programs are on,
you do not have the
ability to burn fat.
My old life literally feels
like a different life.
I mean, when I think about it,
I think about a dream or a movie
that I saw of someone else.
But my memories of it
was constant chaos,
constant stress, constant agony.
Just tying my shoelaces
was a tremendous battle.
Forget about walking up stairs.
Getting into a car or a
plane was sheer agony.
Just sitting down and
feeling all that weight
around your waist was just pain.
And my life--
I was in a job
that I didn't like.
My heart was somewhere else.
I wanted to be somewhere else.
I wanted to be doing
something else.
I knew I had something
else to offer to the world.
So there was just all this
pain of having to go to work
and not having the energy.
I had really bad sleep
apnea, the worst sleep
apnea that the sleep study
technicians had ever seen.
My blood oxygen
levels were in the 50s
when they're supposed
to be in the 90s.
I'd fall asleep in
meetings talking to people.
I'd fall asleep when I was
in my car at a red light.
I was a walking zombie.
And it was a total nightmare.
After I lost the
weight, I realized
what it was like to have
that type of weight on me.
Because I have those big 110
pound gas tanks at my house.
I have two of them.
And you have to replace
them every once in a while.
So I was replacing one.
I could barely lift it.
And I'm taking it over
and just budging it.
And I thought to
myself, my god, I
was carrying around two of
these every day of my life.
Every moment of my life, I was
carrying around two of these.
Do you think you want to
go to work in the morning
when you're carrying
around two gas tanks,
or talk to your wife or your
spouse or go out to a movie?
Anything.
You don't want to move.
Definitely bread.
There's no way I could
get off bread back then.
I was totally addicted to bread.
Pizza, whatever form.
And that's why the Atkins
diet was so miserable for me,
because I was so
addicted to carbs,
to what I call now dead food.
I was so addicted to dead--
to try to go off that,
at the end of the day,
it was just miserable.
And what I used to do
is I used to swap diets
because the Atkins
diet is zero carbs.
And then the Pritikin
diet is all carbs.
So my wife used to joke with me
that I was on the Atkins diet
during the day and the
Pritikin diet at night
because I'd come home
at the end of the day,
and I just couldn't take going
a whole day without carbs.
But I had to have bread.
And I can tell you when I
look at bread right now,
I'm looking at a
piece of cardboard.
I mean, there is no way my
body would want anything
to do with that.
My body knows what nutrition
is and knows what's real.
And it's not an effort.
And an effort would be to try to
get me to eat bread right now.
There's just no way I have
any interest in it whatsoever.
It's not like I'm
resisting anything.
And people say to me, oh, you
must have so much willpower.
And if I have one message,
it's that willpower
has nothing to do with it.
Because I lived through a
body that wanted to be fat.
And I now live in a body
that wants to be thin.
It is effortless.
I eat whatever I
want whenever I want.
And that has gone on
now for seven years.
I don't weigh myself.
I wear the same clothes
that I did seven years ago.
There's no effort whatsoever.
It's not about willpower.
It's not about discipline.
It's about getting your
body to want to be thin.
There's about 10 or
15 reasons that I've
been able to identify that
your fat programs would
get activated.
But one of the reasons why
your fat programs get activated
is because we're
nutritionally famined.
We're nutritionally starved.
We're in a nutritional famine.
And what that means
is, you could be
eating to your heart's content.
You could eat 10,000
calories a day.
And if you're not getting
the specific nutrients
your body needs in a way that
they can digest and assimilate,
then you're starving
on a nutritional basis.
And as long as you're starving
on a nutritional basis,
your body's going to
stay hungry to get
those specific nutrients.
Now, man made foods
like bread and sugar
trick your body into
thinking-- and table salt,
as a matter of fact--
trick your body
into thinking you're
getting specific nutrients.
And so your body
stays hungry for them.
But then the cells
don't get nourished.
And as long as the cells
aren't getting nourished,
you're starving on
a cellular level.
So you have to--
one of the things
I talk about is adding foods.
Not dieting because
dieting is another thing
that causes your body to
activate its fat programs.
Because the whole
reason why we have
fat programs is to protect
us against famines.
Thousands of years ago,
when we lived outdoors,
and we didn't know where our
next meal was coming from,
if there was a famine because
it was a cold winter or whatever
reason, your body
is going to want
to hold extra weight to
protect you from that.
And a famine is a stress.
And if you go
through that stress,
your body's going to say,
we need an extra 10 pounds
to protect us against famines.
Well, when you go on
a diet, guess what?
That's a famine.
Now, that same
stress of a famine
when you have a diet, and so
it activates your fat programs.
Sure, you can lose 10 pounds.
But you just made
your body want to be
10 pounds heavier than
when you even started
to protect you against famines.
So it actually gets your
body to want to be fatter.
And it's not just
dieting that does that.
Other stresses-- mental
stresses and emotional
stresses-- cause the exact
same chemistry as a famine.
So your body gets tricked into
activating those fat programs.
And when your body gets
tricked into activating
fat programs, and at the
time of unlimited all
you can eat excess empty carbs,
that's a recipe for disaster.
That's how you get
morbid obesity.
And that's what I lived through.
You can lose weight on a diet.
But it's a little bit
like borrowing from Peter
to pay Paul.
I mean, you can get 10
pounds off your body
through shear force.
But you're going to have
to pay back with interest.
You'll pay back with 15 pounds.
Because your body--
every time you
force yourself to
lose weight, your body
is going to want to have
extra weight to protect you
from a perceived famine.
And I lived through this, where
I lose 10 pounds, gain 15.
Lose 10 pounds, gain 15.
Until I have gained
over 200 pounds.
And when I say I tried every
diet, besides meeting face
to face with Atkins,
going to Pritkin,
I had naturopaths,
homeopaths, acupuncture.
I had these seeds taped to
my ear from an acupuncturist.
And they're supposed to be--
it's like an acupressure point.
So every time you're hungry,
you're supposed to press them.
I'd walk through the
streets of New York.
Every time I'd smell pizza, I'd
sit there and press these seeds
in my ear.
this.
Is what I lived with.
And I really did work at it.
People think that
overweight people are just
weak and lazy and overindulgent.
I am a very disciplined person.
But I could not-- when
my body wanted to be fat,
I could not lose the weight.
And I had fitness
trainers in the morning.
I was running three companies.
I'm a hardworking person.
I couldn't lose the weight.
And you can not lose the weight
when your body wants to be fat.
You can not.
Just in the short term,
but not in the long term,
until you address
the real issues.
There's about 12--
I forget how many, but
somewhere about 12 to 15
stresses that can activate
your fat programs.
And the reason they
activate your fat programs
is because stress causes
chemistry in the body.
A famine causes
Sometimes, for some people, the
stresses in our modern day life
cause the exact same
chemistry as a famine.
And when that happens,
your body gets
tricked into
activating the famine
response or these fat programs.
So the type of stresses
are like nothing
that you would ever associate
necessarily with waking.
Sleep deprivation, dehydration,
mental and emotional stress.
You're driving to work.
You're stuck in traffic.
Your boss is going
to get mad at you.
That's causing chemistry.
Every time you have a mental
or an emotional stress,
it's causing chemistry in
your body, real chemistry.
And when that chemistry is the
same chemistry as a famine,
your body's going to
want to gain weight.
It's trying to protect you
from the stresses in your life.
It doesn't know what to do.
We're living in a world that's
so different from the way
it was thousands of years ago,
where all we had to worry about
was not being eaten
by a tiger, and where
our next meal was coming from.
And now we've got to worry
about where our mortgage-- how
are we going to pay our
mortgage or our credit card,
or if our kid's going
to go to school,
or if the world's
going to get blown up.
And all of these stresses
are causing chemistry,
and our bodies are
trying to protect us.
And people get so mad.
We get so mad at our bodies.
We hate our bodies
because we think
that our body's trying to
sabotage us or out to get us.
No, it's a protection mechanism.
It's nothing more.
It's your body's chemistry.
And when you understand
that, and you understand
the protection mechanism,
and you understand
how to deactivate the protection
mechanism by addressing
the real stresses in your life,
it's a very automatic process.
And your body just
simply doesn't
need to hold onto the weight.
It doesn't think you
need the protection.
So dealing with mental
and emotional stress,
dealing with childhood traumas,
dealing with toxins, digestion.
You know, we've lost the
ability to digest food because
of antibiotics and
chlorine and toxins
and modern day man
made invented foods.
And even stress itself affects
your ability to digest.
So we've totally lost the
ability to digest the foods.
And the foods we eat don't
have any nutrients anyway,
that between the two we
are chronically starving
on a cellular level.
And our bodies are screaming
for help and nutrition.
And that's a stress
that's going to make
your body want to be fat.
No.
I mean, fat is a protection
mechanism originally designed
to protect you from
famines and cold weather.
That's fat's original purpose.
But in today's world, fat
also protects us from toxins.
Because we're literally
swimming in toxins.
I read an article.
There's 20 different toxins
in bread, 20 different sprays
and chemicals and pesticides
and herbicides and fungicides.
20 different ones from the
seed to the actual bread
that we're eating.
And there's toxins
in the plastics.
And every year there's 3,000
new toxins that are invented.
We're swimming in toxins.
We're taking in so many
toxins that our body can't
eliminate them fast enough.
And so if your body can't
eliminate the toxins,
they can't be swimming
in your bloodstream.
You've got to store them.
Fat is the appropriate
place to store toxins
because it's a chemically
neutral environment.
It acts as a buffer to
protect you from the toxin.
And one study I read
said that there's
over 800 different
toxins in our fat cells.
So as long as you're
taking in more toxins
than you're
eliminating, your body's
not going to let you burn fat.
Because burning
the fat will just
put more toxins into your body.
So you have to address
the fact that you're
being assaulted with toxins
before your body will
allow you to let go of weight.
And I really have to
stress allow as the word.
Your body has to allow
you to lose weight.
And then it's automatic.
But you have to give
your body its due.
You can't force it.
Not in the long term.
Maybe in the short term.
And the reason
you can't force it
is because the same
mechanisms that
control your heartbeat and your
breathing control your hunger.
So you can control the types
of foods you put in your mouth
for a while, but you can't
control how hungry you are.
And you can't control the
types of foods you crave.
That's the domain of your body.
And if your body
wants to be fat,
it's going to make
you insatiably hungry,
the same way that if
you're sleep deprived,
it's going to
force you to sleep.
So imagine you walk
into your doctor,
and he said your problem
is you sleep too much.
Just sleep two hours a night.
And everybody in
the world judged you
because you slept too much.
And so you could sleep
two hours a night, right?
You could do that for a
day, two days, three days,
five days maybe.
But eventually you're
going to need a huge sleep.
That's because your body
is forcing you to sleep.
And your body has the
ability to do that.
It's the exact same with hunger.
You can force yourself to
eat less in the short term.
But your body will force you
through the same mechanism
to eat more.
And eventually you'll
have a big binge.
And then people get
so discouraged by it.
But it's simply because we don't
know how to operate our bodies.
We're violating our
body's basic survival laws
over and over and over again.
The whole dieting
paradigm is flawed.
And every diet comes out--
every week there's a new
diet based on the same idea
that you can somehow force
yourself to lose weight.
And it's flawed.
It's based on a fundamental
flaw that every time you
force yourself to
lose weight, your body
will force you to gain weight.
You've got to-- in order to
lose weight and get your body
to want to be thin, you've got
to address it on all levels.
You've got to address it
from the mind, from the body,
energetically.
You've got to look
at all these things.
Because you can't take the
mind out of the equation.
Because every time we have a
mental or an emotional stress,
it's causing
chemistry in the body.
And that chemistry can be
activating your fat programs.
So you have to deal with
the stresses in your life.
You have to deal with
childhood traumas.
You know, I've talked to
so many people that have
been overweight all their life.
And I always ask them,
when did it start?
When I was four years old.
What happened when you
were four years old?
Well, my father was an
alcoholic and he beat me.
Or we moved to another country,
and I was really scared.
Or there was some sort
of other abuse or trauma.
Where someone else will
say it's when they were 20.
What happened when you were 20?
This, that, and the other thing.
Fundamental traumas that
we've had from our past
will trigger a feeling
of unsafety in the world.
And that feeling of unsafety is
reflected back to us every day.
We pass someone that reminds us
of someone who used to beat us
up, and we get scared.
We got mugged once.
We walk down the
alley, we get scared.
We're afraid of losing our job.
Our boss yells at us.
We get scared.
So traumas trigger this
feeling that you're unsafe.
And you have got
to somehow reclaim
this feeling of inherent safety.
And when you can
do that, your body
will relax and will let
you let go of the weight.
Yeah, well, I have certain
visualization techniques
that I use with people to
help them address childhood
traumas through
reliving them and having
more positive
associations with them,
through creating a
powerful feeling of safety
around your body, and going
back to that situation
and having this protection
that we've created
through visualization,
having this protection,
go back with them
and protect them
and make them totally
reimagine the situation.
Because our bodies don't know
the difference between a real
and imagined experience.
You know?
Like they've done studies
with Olympic athletes,
and every great Olympic
athlete uses visualization.
But they've done studies
where when an athlete does
visualization, their
brain, their neurons,
their nervous system,
all get activated
in the same coordinated
sequence as if they're actually
doing the sport.
Your body doesn't
know the difference
between a real or
imagined experience.
If you have a dream that
a tiger is chasing you,
you're going to wake up sweating
and your heart's pounding.
So when you use visualization
to go back and relieve childhood
traumas, your body totally
reprograms what happened
and what's safe and what's
not safe in the world.
So I use visualization
where we go back,
and we create this
powerful feeling of safety.
We reimagine the situation.
And we let go of the pain of it.
And then all through life, we
imagine the rest of your life,
anywhere where there is any
pain from that, relive it.
And then in your present
life, have that feeling
of safety around you.
And then through doing
daily visualizations,
like listening to
my CD that I've
created and things like that,
people on a cellular level,
on a conscious, body
conscious, subconscious level,
there's a feeling of safety.
And you can't fake
a feeling of safety.
Like right now as I'm sitting
here and I'm talking to you
I feel safe.
I have never felt
more safe in my life.
I just feel totally safe.
I can't fake that.
I don't know why it is.
It's through years
of visualization
and my daily training and
all this, but I feel safe.
And so now I'm not
being triggered
by all these stressors.
There was a time when
I never felt safe.
I didn't know what I was
going to do for a living, how
I was going to make ends meet.
My relationships weren't safe.
Paying the rent, just whether
someone's going to attack me,
the world situation.
Whatever it was,
all these things
were building to create
this feeling of unsafety.
The partner, business
partner that I had
was a very aggressive person.
He just scared me, reminded
me of childhood traumas
that I had had.
Just no matter where
I was, I felt unsafe.
And I can tell you
now, that's all gone.
And that is for so many people
that I've worked with now
over the last couple of years.
So when you get that,
your body relaxes.
Well, I've always used
visualization in my life.
And it wasn't only
until back then
when I started losing weight
that I applied visualization
to weight loss.
And that became
incredibly successful.
But from the age of
10, I used to get
really bad migraine headaches.
And nothing would work.
And eventually my
father, who was a dentist
and had some experience with
hypnosis for pain relief
in his clients,
he would take me--
he took me on this journey
where I was skiing down a hill.
And I imagined the headache
as this black sand.
And I would tip it, tip
the sand as I was skiing.
And eventually got down
to the bottom of the hill,
and the black sand was gone,
and my headache was gone.
And then I learned how
to do that to myself.
And then eventually,
I got so good at it
that anytime I felt
the size of a headache,
I could just sort of imagine
that the headache was going
into my finger, and
then flick it away,
and then it would be gone.
And so from a very
early age, I had
experience with visualization.
Then for giving up smoking
as a teenager, I did it.
And then in business I did it.
But I didn't do
it for weight loss
until after that
experience that I had.
And as soon as I did it,
I found a difference.
And I can tell you,
a lot of people
look at my before
and after pictures,
and they wonder how I did that.
I can tell you that the
body that I have now
is exactly the body that
I visualized having.
And I'm not sure
that's a coincidence.
And I thought about, why is
visualization so powerful
for weight loss?
And visualization for
body changing in general.
Because Arnold
Schwarzenegger said
he used to use visualization to
become a professional champion
bodybuilder, and he was one
of the best bodybuilders.
And I've talked to
so many other people
that have been so successful
with visualization.
But what I realized
is, visualization
is like a language
that you can use
to talk to your subconscious.
Your subconscious is
the part of your brain
that's in charge
of a lot of things.
But one of the things
it's in charge of
is your body's
unconscious processes.
How much oxygen you need
is not a conscious thought.
You don't think I
should breathe more.
That's unconscious.
How much your heart
beats is unconscious.
And how fat or thin you should
be is an unconscious decision,
but it is a decision.
And the problem with this
subconscious or unconscious
part of us is that it
doesn't speak English.
And so we're being run by a
brain that we can't talk to.
But what I realized
is, visualization
is like a language
that you can use
to talk to your unconscious.
Because just like you
can't talk to someone who
doesn't speak your language--
say you have to go to the
bathroom in a foreign country.
You could ask 1,000 people
where the bathroom is.
They won't tell you.
But if you draw a
picture of a bathroom
on a napkin in the
restaurant or something
and show it to anyone, instantly
they know what you mean.
Visualization is the
universal-- or symbols
is the universal
language for people
that don't speak your language.
And your body doesn't
speak your language.
When you make a visual image
of the way you'd like to look,
and you do it when your mind is
calm and powerful and relaxed,
your subconscious understands.
And it understands that
it doesn't need fat,
and that it's
confusing the stresses.
Because it really
doesn't know what
to do with the stresses
of modern day life.
Do I get fatter?
Do I get thinner?
How do I protect this
person who's so scared?
So sometimes it uses fat.
But when you can communicate
with your subconscious
and say no, that's
not the answer.
I appreciate it, but that's
not what's happening.
OK, I'll turn the
fat programs off.
Just like that,
everything changes.
So visualization is such a
powerful-- and in my opinion,
totally indispensable--
practice for
sustainable weight loss.
You know, not everybody
has had the same experience
with visualization as I have.
Like I started from
early childhood
because of my headaches
and things like that.
So I've had a lot of
experience with visualization.
But people say to me, I can't
visualize my ideal body,
or I can't picture this.
I can't picture that.
So I made a visualization CD
that you listen to at night.
But I also tell people, get
a picture of exactly the way
you'd like to look.
It could be you at
another time when you
were fit and healthy and happy.
Or it could be somebody else.
Doesn't matter.
Just look at the picture for
30 seconds with kind of like
if you're looking through the
picture in an unconscious way.
Don't look at the
picture with your eyes.
Look through it.
Let your subconscious absorb
it for just 30 seconds.
And then close your eyes,
and either see yourself,
feel yourself, imagine
yourself being in that body.
Imagine yourself walking on
the beach with that body.
Whatever way you can do it.
And it's a little
bit like a muscle.
Visualization is like
a muscle that gets
stronger the more you use it.
So maybe it's been
atrophied for 20 or 30 years
because you've never used it.
And look, if you
had your left arm
taped to your body for 30 years,
you couldn't lift a pencil.
Right?
But from daily practice,
eventually your left arm
gets as strong as
your right arm.
So visualization gets stronger.
Your power to visualize
gets stronger and stronger.
And what's really
amazing about it
is when your power of
visualization gets so strong,
you can visualize anything
you want happening,
and it'll happen
for most people.
I mean if you
really get strong--
it's really only a
function of how strong
and how powerful your
visualization is.
And I remember when I found a
publisher that I really wanted
to be my publisher for my book.
And I didn't call them.
I didn't say, hey, I got a
really good book for you.
I sat in my morning
visualization.
I imagined them publishing
it, and the book
spreading all over the world.
And within a week, I got a
call from a literary agent
in Thailand that said,
I just read your book,
and the last book I sold
was to this publisher.
And I'd like to sell it.
I'd like to
introduce it to them.
And I said, sure.
And they did.
The publisher loved it.
And then it went, and
it's now in 15 languages.
So that happened
through visualization.
That didn't happen through
me going out and getting it.
And more and more I've
realized that whatever
it is that I'm
looking to achieve,
it always starts
with a vision first.
And the more powerful
my mind gets--
and this is true of everyone--
the more able we are
to create that vision.
You know, our foods have
so many flavor enhancers
to try to get us
to eat more of it.
And one of them,
for example, is MSG.
And MSG is in 80%
of all flavor foods
that you get at a
restaurant, that you
get at a grocery store.
It makes you want to eat more.
But it does something else.
It actually excites
a part of your brain
that's in charge of
the fat programs.
The chemical of MSG
excites the brain.
And due to that
excitation, your body
actually activates the fat
programs and gets fatter.
And everybody knows this.
Scientists know this.
Everybody knows this.
And no one's saying anything.
How do I know
everybody knows this?
Well, when you want
to study obesity,
and you want to
study a fat mouse,
you've got to make a mouse fat.
Because mice aren't fat.
So the way you make a mouse
fat is you feed him MSG.
And there's even a term for it.
MSG obesity-induced mice.
If you do a search for
MSG obesity-induced mice,
you'll see tons of
research reports
where they talk about,
well, the protocol was
we made the mouse fat feeding
them this much MSG, blah blah
blah blah blah.
And then we studied this, this,
and this, and the other thing.
They're not studying that.
They're just--
that's the protocol
for making a mouse fat,
is feeding them MSG.
And this is in 80%
of modern day foods.
And it's basically turning
us into fat programs.
Diet sweeteners-- just
like MSG, diet sweeteners,
certain diet sweeteners,
activate your fat programs.
It's also what's
called an excitotoxin.
An excitotoxin is really
a neurotransmitter
that's being delivered into the
brain in too high of quantity.
So it excites the
neurons too much.
Now, when you look
at aspartame, it's
composed of two amino acids.
And one of them
is phenylalanine.
Now, phenylalanine is
a neurotransmitter.
When you put too much
phenylalanine in your brain
at once, it excites the brain.
And it excites the
part of your brain
that activates the fat
programs and makes you fatter.
So yeah, there's zero
calories in diet soda.
But studies have shown that
if you drink diet soda,
within a couple
of years you will
be fatter than when you first
started drinking the diet soda.
This whole idea of
calories in, calories out
is ridiculous and ludicrous.
It's simply about the
chemical reaction to the foods
that you're eating.
And if the chemical reaction is
activating your fat programs,
you will get fat.
Guaranteed.
We're definitely being
marketed to this idea
that you have to be beautiful.
You have to be glamorous.
And this is the way
you're going to do it.
Through eating diet
soda, drinking diet soda,
or having this diet
thing or that diet,
or having this surgery
or that surgery,
that your problems are
going to be solved,
and you're going
to be beautiful,
and your life's going to change.
And to me, it's just opportunism
at its finest, really
is what it is.
Well, I think we all
want to be loved.
And when you think about
love, what love is really,
is love is safety.
Because when you're
zero years old,
when you're a
couple of weeks old,
if your mother doesn't love
you, you're going to die.
Your mother has to take care
of you, has to feed you.
You're totally helpless.
So from the moment we're born,
we equate love with safety.
So when you feel
like you're not being
loved because your partner
or boyfriend or girlfriend
doesn't love you, or because
someone out there doesn't love
you, then your safety, your
primal feeling of safety,
is being triggered.
That activates a stress.
That's going to make you
want to hold on to weight.
You know, 1,000 years ago, if
the community didn't love you,
you were excommunicated.
The tribe didn't love,
And so then you die.
Because you can't survive on
your own in a tribal world.
So
It's totally hardwired into
us that love equals safety.
And so we want to be loved.
And if it means being
beautiful, healthy,
or the healthy
looking at all costs
successful, whatever it is, love
to us is the same as safety.
But if you can get that
feeling of safety on your own
through doing visualization
or practices, or just really
programming into you an
inherent feeling of safety,
then you're not at the whim
of everything out there.
And you don't have to
buy and sell anymore.
You just speak your truth.
And the people that love
you are going to love you
for the right reasons.
And the people that
don't, you don't care.
And you can truly,
truly be yourself.
Because you're just
not being pulled
in every different
direction to get everybody
to like you and love you.
You just feel safe.
When it's coming from the right
place, it's coming through you.
It's not what you're doing.
And then when it's coming
through you, it's all ease.
It's all flow.
It's only when we have an
idea of what we want to do.
Well, I want to be an
accountant because that's how
I'm going to make the money.
That's how I'm going to be safe.
And maybe that's
right for one person,
but it might not be
right from another.
And if it's not right for
you, then you're on your own.
You're subject to how smart you
can be, how fast you can be,
how hard you can work.
But when you're really following
your heart and that impulse
inside you that
knows why you're here
and knows what
you're meant to be
doing, even if it's illogical--
because you can't see the
end until it's happened.
But when you follow
that, the doors open up.
And there's flow
and ease and grace.
And then there's not stress from
everything that's not working.
It's like, ah, I just talked
to this guy on the streets,
and all of a sudden he's the
vice president of the company
that I wanted to talk to.
And we're buddies now.
It's just how could I know
that was going to happen?
But when you're following
that impulse inside you,
that part inside your heart
that knows why you're here,
it all flows.
People think that
the fat you eat
is the fat that
becomes your body.
It's not exactly like that.
Fat doesn't make fat.
Hormones and chemistry
in your body make fat.
And the wrong chemistry
from either the stress
or eating the wrong
types of foods
will put your body
in fat storage mode.
But certain fats are
totally essential.
Aside from water, the largest
part of our body is fat.
65% of our brain is fat.
Every cell in your body is
covered with a wall of fat.
If it's not the right fat that
is an essential fat that's
uncorrupted--
which is very rare
in modern days--
if it's not that,
it's the wrong fat,
you don't get proper
hormonal communication
between the hormones
and the cell.
Because the cell wall protects
the cell from the outside.
So the cell doesn't open up
to have the right nutrients.
So it's starving.
And then your body goes
into this fat storage mode
and starts making fat and
starts making you hungrier.
And that's because of
hormonal miscommunication
and eating the wrong fats
and the wrong types of foods.
Modern day man made foods will
totally screw your body up
on a hormonal level.
And so it's not about fat.
You can eat as much
fat as you're craving,
as long as it's the right fat.
Essential fats that are
uncorrupted and not man made.
Those are the right fats.
Eat as much of them as you want.
Over time what
happens is your cells
get coated with a very
permeable layer that
allows for the most
efficient communication
between the hormones
in the cells.
It's a little bit like putting
the right oil in a car.
It functions properly.
So the hormones
that make fat start
to go down because that
stress isn't there anymore.
Your blood sugar stabilizes, so
you're not hungry all the time,
and you're not
exhausted all the time.
You're not craving junk food.
You have so much more energy.
And everything's
flowing properly.
Your energy is flowing.
You can have the courage
then to do what it
is that you're longing to do.
You can make a change
because you have the energy
to make a change.
So having the right fat is one
of the most essential things
you can do.
The most important
thing is add the foods
your body's starving for.
Don't turn it into a diet.
Keep the focus always on adding.
If it's, for example--
the types of foods we need are
foods that were not man made.
Because man made foods our body
doesn't know how to process,
doesn't know how to digest.
And it causes hormonal chaos.
It causes us to gain
weight and to have
problems like type 2
diabetes and high blood sugar
and heart disease and cancer
and all those kind of things.
So add foods that
are not man made.
If you were on an island
from 1,000 years ago,
what foods could you eat?
You could eat meat, chicken,
fish, salads, nuts, fruits,
seeds.
Our bodies understand those.
Keep the focus on
adding those foods.
At every meal, ask yourself,
where's the real food?
And as far as omega
3s, it's very hard
to get omega 3s in
an uncorrupted form.
One way is to take
ground linseeds.
But you want to buy
the linseeds whole.
And they're really cheap.
They're a couple
dollars a pound,
I think is what they are.
A pound will last a few months.
So you take a couple
of tablespoons,
put it in a coffee grinder,
grind it up, sprinkle it
on your food all day.
For most people,
that's good enough.
It's not good enough
for everybody.
Because if your family comes
from a northern European
fishing village, then
all of your omega 3s
came from coldwater fish.
And you lose the
enzymes that translates
omega 3s from vegetable sources
into the specific omega 3s--
EPA and DHA-- that you need.
So you've lost that ability.
So you need to take probably
some fish oil supplements.
The best ones are
probably krill oil,
because krill oil has the
least amount of toxins in it.
Remember, fat holds toxins.
Like a conventionally farmed
almond is going to have way
more toxins than organic.
Because that's where--
like our bodies,
we hold our toxins
in our fat cells.
So plants and animals also
hold their toxins in their fat.
So if your fat is coming
from a conventional source,
it's going to have a
lot of toxins in it.
So it's really
important to have fats
that don't have toxins in them.
And so krill oil's a really
good source of fish oil
because most fish have just
too many toxins in them.
That if you just get
regular fish oil,
it's going to be toxic.
So krill oil is a good source.
But just putting ground
linseeds on all your food
throughout the day is a
great way to get omega 3s.
There's a couple of different
layers to live food.
And to me, the difference
between a live food
and a dead food is a
lot like the difference
between a live person
and a dead person.
You know, if you look at two
people next to each other,
one's live, one's dead,
they might look the same
if they're not moving.
But there's a world
of difference.
What's missing?
Life force.
Life force energy.
We all know it exists.
Science hasn't given it a
name yet, just the same way
that radio waves
weren't discovered
until a couple hundred
years ago or bacterias
weren't discovered.
But they were all there.
We haven't, quote,
"discovered" life force energy.
But we all know it exists.
The sun interacts
with the planet.
And through photosynthesis,
converts sunlight
into protein,
carbohydrates, and fats.
And that's how we live.
So sun is energy.
Life force is energy also.
And we need life
force in our food.
Years ago, almost
everything we ate
had life force energy in it.
Now, almost nothing we
eat has life force energy.
So we're starving on a chronic
basis for life force energy.
And that causes the
same stress in your body
and starving for anything else.
And so your body activates
its fat programs.
Also live food has living
enzymes and healthy bacteria
that your stomach needs to
digest and assimilate foods.
And if you're not eating
those, your stomach
loses the healthy
bacteria and enzymes
that it needs to digest food.
So even if the
food had nutrients
that you were eating-- which
it doesn't, but even if it did,
you can't extract
those nutrients.
So adding more live food.
Turn everything into a salad.
Even if you're
having a Happy Meal,
cut it up and turn
it into a salad.
Not that I recommend
having a Happy Meal.
But whatever you're eating,
keep the focus on adding.
So add salad.
Add it to it.
When it's Thanksgiving,
and you're
having a big turkey meal,
make a big salad out of it.
That food, that salad,
will give you the enzymes
to properly digest the food.
It'll give you the life force
that you're starving for.
And then help your body
turn off the fat programs.
Look, we all have tried to lose
weight through deprivation.
And we know that, look,
if you starve yourself,
you're going to lose weight.
But you can't starve
yourself forever.
And you can't go off of
this food or that food
that you crave forever.
You can't fight
your body forever.
But if you keep the focus
on adding, what happens
is you have more energy.
Your tastes change.
Your cravings change.
You don't have
blood sugar issues,
so you don't have sugar issues.
You don't have sugar
cravings anymore.
And over time, you
educate your body
that this is proper nutrients.
Not the dead stuff that we've
been tricked into thinking
is real food.
So over time, you crave this
with more and more and more.
If you want to lose
weight forever,
don't try to lose 20
pounds in 20 days.
Try to solve the
problem forever,
whether it's a mental
stress or emotional stress
or a physical thing, or
you're starving for nutrients.
Solve the problem forever, and
then you're cravings change.
And you will crave
healthier foods.
And it's happening now.
I've seen it happen with so
many thousands of people now.
Nothing on earth frustrates
me more than the way
we deal with childhood obesity.
Because you can force a kid to
lose weight in the short term.
But then you've just
given him a problem
for the rest of
his life, a problem
of feeling that he's
inadequate, that he's not
able to achieve what he
wants, that he's a loser,
or that you have to
force him to eat less,
taking him to this
place and that place
and weighing him in school.
When more than
anything, we're starving
the kid on a nutritional level.
And the stresses
that he's having
to undergo through toxins--
do you know today,
I read a study
that an average three-year-old
has 70 different vaccinations
by the time they're three.
And it wasn't like that
when we were a kid.
And I don't want to get into
the argument about vaccinations.
Some are good.
Some are bad.
Whatever.
But there's no question
that there's toxins.
They tell a mother
or a pregnant woman
not to eat tuna fish because
there's too much mercury in it.
Yet there's
vaccinations that they
give in infants that are
the equivalent of maybe
50 or 100 cans of tuna fish,
as far as the mercury content.
So we're bombarding
kids with toxins.
We're starving them on
a nutritional level.
We're giving them
stresses about how
they have to achieve in life and
compete that are unbelievable.
And kids can't take that.
And they can't handle it.
And then on top of
that, we tell them
that they've got to eat less
when their bodies are forcing
them to gain weight as
a form of protection.
And then it gets in their head.
For the rest of their life,
they feel like there's
something wrong with them.
So you can force a kid to
lose weight in the short term.
But you've given them a problem
for the rest of his life.
And it's our problem
and it's our faults.
We're the ones that are
doing something wrong.
Antibiotics and chlorinated
water and eating modern day
foods that are devoid of
these healthy bacterias
and digestive enzymes have
totally changed the bacteria
in our stomach.
So those healthy
bacteria aren't there
anymore that digest our foods.
And the unhealthy bacteria
that are in there instead
feed off of sugar and
cause sugar cravings.
So it's almost like
we've become a host
to unhealthy bacterias
in our stomach
that are forcing
us to eat sugar.
Because that's what
they need to propagate.
So you have to reverse all that.
And the way to reverse it--
in the beginning, at least--
is you've got to add
healthy bacteria.
And they're called probiotics.
And you've got to add
digestive enzymes.
And you've got to
eat more live food
to change the bacteria
in your stomach
so that you can digest
and assimilate nutrients.
Because when you can't digest
and assimilate nutrients,
you continue to starve
on a cellular level.
And that keeps your body hungry.
Reducing sugar
cravings is really
about addressing
issues on every level.
Because mental and emotional
stress will cause chemistry
that cause sugar cravings.
Having unfriendly
bacteria in your stomach
will cause sugar cravings.
Having insulin
resistance, which you
get when you have
the fat programs on,
cause low blood sugar that
causes sugar cravings.
So by adding friendly
bacteria, by dealing
with the mental and emotional
stresses in your life,
and by adding healthy foods
like omega 3 fatty acids,
all these things get addressed.
So systematically, point
by point, all of the things
that cause the
sugar and the bread
cravings in the first
place get eliminated.
And then at the end I
also offer a visualization
for people that will
help finish the job.
So what you find is, more
and more what will happen
is, you'll walk by the bakery,
and normally you think,
should I have that donut?
And you don't even look
anymore at the bakery.
You don't even look
through the window,
or you realize you
forgot to eat dessert.
Little by little,
organically you just
don't crave sugar anymore.
But if you really want
to finish the job,
you can use visualization.
Because visualization is
also a really powerful way
of eliminating cravings.
If you imagine that
you're eating sugar,
and it's actually ground
glass cutting you up,
and it's painful, and
all this kind of stuff,
your body will reject sugar.
I once had a friend
of mine tell me
that he never eats
anything that's
prepared by a friend
of his, because when
he was 10 years old, his
friend made him a sandwich,
and he spit in it.
And he didn't tell him.
And ever since then--
he's 40 years old
now-- he'll never eat
anything because it
was such a visceral experience.
Well, when you imagine
something like that happening--
if you imagine
eating a sandwich,
and the bread has
worms in it, your body
reacts to it on such
a cellular level.
You feel that you're
nauseous all of a sudden.
Because your body doesn't know
the difference between a real
and imagined experience.
Then you're not going to
want the bread anymore.
But I don't recommend doing
that type of visualization
in the beginning.
I recommend dealing
with it organically
by addressing the root
causes of the addiction.
And then at the end, you finish
the job like that in one shot.
You know, I have very specific
guidelines on exercise.
First of all, I don't recommend
that you do it initially.
Because there's so much
stress that your body
is experiencing already that
your body's in this kind
of stress overload.
And the stress of exercise
will just add to that overload.
So for the first month
or two, I recommend
dealing with the
emotional stresses,
getting your digestion better,
adding more real foods.
And then once the stress
level goes down a little bit,
then adding exercise.
But I only recommend
adding exercise
in a very specific way.
Exercise when done right
will actually get your body
to want to be thinner.
Otherwise it just becomes
a calorie burning tool.
And as a calorie burning tool--
so you burn 300
calories, and then you're
300 calories hungrier.
It doesn't do anything.
But if you do it right-- and you
don't have to do it that much.
You just have to do it right.
Then it becomes a tool
for getting your body
to want to be thin.
And the way it works is, imagine
it's like 1,000 years ago,
and you're walking in the
woods, and a bear comes out
and starts chasing you.
So that's a stress.
And you're not going to go
for a 40 minute cardio walk
if a bear is chasing you.
You're going to run.
You're going to run as fast
as you can for 30 seconds,
or you're dead.
And that stress activates a
different program inside you
that's different than
the fat programs.
It's a different
stress than a famine.
That stress activates the get
thin or get eaten adaptation.
When your body activates the get
thin or get eaten adaptation,
then it thinks nothing is more
important than being thin.
Because if we're not thin, and
we're not fast, we're dead.
And then boom, you're
not hungry anymore.
You stop eating
halfway through a meal.
You don't crave fattening foods.
Your body knows how to lose
weight when it wants to.
And if it thinks be thin or
be dead, it'll lose weight.
You can use exercise
to trick your body
into activating the get thin
or get eaten adaptation.
The way to do it is, let's
say you're going for a walk
that you do every day.
Just walk leisurely.
Don't do this power walk
thing for 40 minutes.
Walk leisurely.
But every once in a while,
just for maybe 10 seconds--
and of course, get your
doctor's approval, whatever.
But just for 10 seconds,
move as fast as you can.
And imagine that you're
being chased by a predator.
Because remember,
your body doesn't
know the difference between a
real and imagined experience.
And it thinks the reason you're
moving so fast is for survival.
And so if survival
is about being thin,
that's a whole other game.
That's a whole other
kettle of fish.
That'll get your body
to want to be thin.
And you don't have
to do it that much.
Once or twice a week for
30 seconds here or there.
And if you do do it too much,
it becomes a chronic stress
that elevates your
cortisol levels
and causes your body to
activate the fat programs.
And studies have shown--
there was a study I
read about cross country
skiers in Colorado where they
were training and training
and training, and
they were getting
fitter and fitter and fitter.
And at a certain point,
they start gaining weight.
Because the stress
was too much for them.
And that stress became
a chronic stress
that then activated
their fat programs.
So you don't have
to do it too much.
Always keep the focus on how
fat or thin my body wants to be.
Don't worry about
calories in, calories out.
Let your body do the accounting.
Keep the focus on how fat or
thin your body wants to be.
And when you do
exercise this way,
your body wants to be thin.
The way to have clear,
healthy, vibrant skin
and to have proper functioning
happy brain chemistry so
you don't have depression
and to look and feel great
is to do it from the inside out.
If you eat the right
fats, for example,
and you eat live foods,
you add live foods,
and you have the
right proper proteins,
then your skin clears up.
I used to have the worst eczema.
My skin looked like a crocodile.
And it itched all the time.
And it was terrible.
And there were marks of
toxins all over my body.
And there were blue spots
and all kinds of things.
And it's just all cleared up.
And my skin's softer
than it's ever been.
And that's from dealing
with the inside out.
Getting the cells of your body
healthier, reducing toxins.
When you put creams on your
skin, those creams have toxins.
And those toxins
go into your body.
And then a lot of times people
say, stay out of the sun.
Stay out of the sun.
The sun is our life force.
It's our connection
to life itself.
Don't stay out of the sun.
The reason we're having
so much skin cancer
is because we're putting
toxins on our skin
in the form of sunscreen.
And when those toxins
interact with the sun,
you get mutations.
And that causes skin cancer.
But if your skin is
healthy from the inside out
because you don't have
toxins, then that energy just
gets absorbed into your body.
Vitamin D is essential
for losing weight.
Vitamin D turns off
the fat programs.
And a lack of vitamin D
turns on the fat programs.
It's like in winter time,
if there's not enough sun,
your body knows that there's
probably not enough foods.
It's going to activate
the fat programs.
Sunlight elevates
your vitamin D levels.
That turns off the fat programs.
It also increases
the hormone group
called melanocortins
in your brain
that turns off the fat programs.
And you're absorbing
life force that you're
starving for into your body.
The sun is your
connection to life.
Don't cut it off.
There's a lot of ways
to do healthy cheap.
And it's important, because
people are on a low income,
and they can't afford all
these food supplements.
They can't afford organic food
and all this kind of stuff.
But for example, going
to the health food store
and buying a couple of
pounds of whole flax seeds
and then grinding
them up each day,
you're talking
about if you spend
$10, that's going to feed
your family for two months.
And that's going to give
you proteins, fibers,
and all the omega 3s you
need in an uncorrupted form
for two months.
And buy them organic.
Spend the extra $2
for the organic.
Because toxins are held in fat.
And that healthy fat's
going to have toxins
if it's not organic.
So buy the organic one.
Go to farmers
markets in your area
and buy locally grown
spray-free produce.
It's typically much cheaper--
if it's in season
and locally grown,
it's typically much cheaper
than going to a supermarket
to buy produce.
And it's much healthier.
Maybe it's not
certified organic,
because they haven't gone
through all the rigmaroles.
But it's usually a mom and pop
that are growing some stuff,
and they're not spraying it.
And it's on there
that it's spray free.
Go to your farmer market.
Buy spray-free.
Add that to all the
meals that you're having.
Whenever you can, if you have
a little bit of a garden--
even if you have two
meters, two square meters,
in your house or out, you
can grow all the lettuce
that your family
will need forever.
You can grow 30
patches of lettuce--
that's a month's worth of
lettuce at any given time--
for next to nothing.
And it's the healthiest
food you can get.
So much healthier
than any other lettuce
you can buy, even if
it's organically grown,
because it still
has the life force.
The second you cut it off,
you serve it, you eat it,
you're absorbing life
force, live enzymes,
all of the different
nutrients that you need.
And it costs next to nothing.
Growing wheat grass.
Wheat grass is by far
the healthiest thing
you can put in your body.
If it's fresh squeezed
organically grown wheat grass,
you can grow that on a
windowsill for next to nothing.
A shot of wheat grass
is going to give you
all the nutrients your body
needs for a day bar none.
And it's going to go
right into your cells.
Doesn't matter if
your digestion is not
working because it goes right
through your stomach, right
through your blood,
right into your cells.
Grow wheat grass.
Have a shot every day.
Grow some lettuce.
Even inside an apartment,
have that every day
and get some ground linseeds.
And you will be healthier
than your wildest imagination
for next to nothing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]